# Retrieval-Based-Chatbot
The initiative of this project is to make a Chatbot with the help of python using the NLTK library. NLTK library is also known as the Natural Language Toolkit. Natural language Toolkit is the library of NLP (Natural Language processing).

Now-a-days messaging has become the most common way of communication and the reason behind that is we use natural language to communicate. Chatbot is a software which can take user input in natural language and process it and generate a smart and relative response. Amazon Alexa, Apple Siri, and Microsoft Cortana are a few famous examples of chatbot.
Retrieval Based Chatbots are the chatbot that is trained to provide the best possible response from a database of predefined responses. The responses are based on existing information.
Retrieval Based Chatbot uses a heuristic approach, which uses a practical method or various shortcuts in order to produce solutions that may not be optimal but are sufficient given a limited timeframe or information from a dataset or txt file. Retrieval based chatbots are used in industry because the tone that Chatbot uses while reciprocating to others is not subjected to any mood swings.

It works on techniques like keyword matching, keyword matching works like searching for each keyword in the given corpus.
In this project we will build a Retrieval based chatbot which will respond to us on the .txt file created by us. Retrieval Based Chatbots are the chatbot that is trained to provide the best possible response from a database of predefined responses. The responses are based on existing information.
The Chatbot will be created with the help of a Python library named NLTK.

We will be using a library called Scikit or sklearn, it is the most useful library in Python for Machine Learning, it contains a lot of useful tools. Then we will be creating a .txt file where all the information will be stored and the bot will be giving responses from there only since it is a retrieval based chatbot. Preprocessing will take place followed by tokenization. Then keyword matching will take place. Then the response gets generated. To make the response more informational we have used a Tf-idf vectorizer. Cosine similarity is introduced here where, if the bot doesn’t find anything matching then it gives a specific response. At the end we get our output where the bot asks us and gives us responses accordingly.
